A forest has 10,000 trees of which there is a 4:1 ratio of Nordmann fir to Norway spruce. How would you design a program to simulate the following problem?

Create a forest with the correct requirements:


	
Nordmann Fir trees can only be cut down between the ages of 25 and 70 years
	
Norway Spruce trees can only be harvested between the ages of 90 and 150 years
	
The management have decided that every 3 tree plant should be a maple 
	
After 4 years:
	

		
They can be tapped for maple syrup, they produce 1.5 litres
		
How many 0.5 litre containers will be needed
	
	
	
Any diseased trees should be cut down and burnt 
	
A Nordmann fir over the age of 250 can't be cut down unless it is diseased.
	
If a Norway spruce is over 150 years it is cut down and left for a bug hotel (unless diseased)
	
Calculate how many trucks you will need to take away the harvest.
	

		
35 Nordmann fir trees per truck
		
15 Norway spruce trees per truck
	
	
	
For each cut or burnt tree plant 1 more
	
You have a team of three foresters they can cut down 10 Nordmann Fir and/or 4 Norway Spruce per day
	
Foresters are hired for 30 days per year 
	
Random forest fire: Only between months of June - August or if school holidays are on or if it is international camping day and it is not raining.
	
Deer damage new trees unless they are protected. Protection is random. The deer herd expands by of 25 deer per year the initial population is 57. 
	
5 years ago, a pack of wolves were released into your forest (1 male-3 female). Each wolf needs the equivalent 1 deer to survive a month and every female has one healthy pup per year. Male wolves are chased away at the age of 3 and remaining members can die of disease or old age.
	
Due to popular demand, you have released a colony of beavers into your river:
	

		
what do they need to survive and 
		
how will it affect your forest? 
	
	
	
Sir Mahon Hughes loves doves- any tree with doves cannot be cut down or tapped for maple syrup. Every 1:50 trees are home to a dove.
	
The North East quadrant of your forest has the mighty, mythical and magical river 'Agrona' running through it. Trees grow at 3 times the rate along her banks - but beware sometimes strange things happen.........